In this lab, you are supposed to write two functions, one for performing linear search for a value over a given list of numbers, and the other for performing binary search. You are provided with a wrapper C program (Search.c) and you just have to implement the body of both those functions (prototype provided with, refer program Search.c).
The program Search.c generates the required test cases (18 lists of varying sizes together with corresponding key values to look for) and would make function calls to both the functions linearSearch() and binarySearch() (the functions to be implemented) and would compute runnning time for each of those test cases, for both the functions.
Once you successfully implement both the functions and run the program, the program would generate 3 files.
(a) testCaseSize.txt – This text file containing 18 entries, where the ith entry is the size of the array corresponding to the ith test case.
(b) BinarySearchTime.txt - This text file containing 18 entries, where the ith entry is the running time consumed by the function binarySearch() corresponding to the ith test case in nanoseconds.
(c) LinearSearchTime.txt - This text file containing 18 entries, where the ith entry is the running time consumed by the function linearSearch() corresponding to the ith test case in nanoseconds.
Further, you are supposed to plot two line-graphs on the same sheet, with entries from the file testCaseSize.txt on the X-Axis, and those from the remaining two files on the Y-axis, corresponding to both the line-graphs so as to compare running times of both the search procedures as in the following picture (the red line represents the time consumed by the binarySearch() procedure while the blue one corresponds to linearSearch()). You could use the online tool https://chart-studio.plotly.com/create/#/
1
In the online tool, you could set trace type to be “line” and have to have two traces (lines). Copy the 18 entries from the file testCaseSize.txt to column A, those from the file BinarySearchTime.txt to column B and those from the file file LinearSearchTime.txt to column C.
As you could see in the figure, have both the traces (line-graphs) with X-axis being the same (column A) and column B and C being the respective Y-axises, and this gives you a pictorial comparison of the running time of both the procedures.
2
You are supposed to run the program in a linux environment. Those who doesn’t have access to, may use an online linux platform like cocalc.com where you have to create a login to begin with. Further, create a project folder and copy the file Search.c in to the same.
Once you double click the file Search.c, you would have access to an online editor with a button labelled “shell” on the top right corner. Once you double click the button, you would have access to a command prompt (starting with a ‘$’ symbol) as shown in the picture below. 3
In the command prompt, you are supposed to type gcc Search.c to compile the c file using the linux compiler gcc, which would generate the executable a.out (if your program is error free). Further, you could run the executable using the command ./a.out
You may double click the File tab (top left) to see the additional set of files generated during the execution.
For the sake of debugging, you may replace the value 18 in your program (occurs at 3 different places inside for loops) with 1 so that the program would be dealing with a single test list of size 30. Further, for debugging you may use printf and scanf (refer online sources) functions to see through the values of variables over iterations. 4